Mateo in Chile
Amelia in Canada
Aissatou in Cameroon
Melokuhle in South Africa
Louise in France
Aleksandar in Bulgaria
Aarav in India
Meiling in China
Himari in Japan
Ed in Australia
The Electronic Fairy is almighty.
Almost everyone in the world has 
fallen under her spell.
Under the fairy's control, people 
consume, over and over again.
You are Gnomette and your heart is always full of hope.
Your mission is to help ten inhabitants of this planet 
to find their way through 
their chaotic consumer lives.
The Electronic Fairy will do whatever it takes
to drown these people under mountains of devices,
kept "just in case", obsolete,
or simply forgotten in a corner.
To prevent this, 
you can help the humans 
to tidy up their mess, 
and to use the recycling 
options available
in their country.
Buy human, buy!
E-waste recycling in
OPTIONS
The Electronic Fairy
Business as Usual
20% improvement
Credits
Congratulations, you've unlocked the credits!
Congratulations, you've unlocked the 20% worldwide recycling improvement mode!
Congratulations, you've reached the tenth and final year, this is the last battle!
Well done Gnomette!
You've managed to thwart the plans
of the Electronic Fairy for 10 years
and bring her back to her senses!
The Fairy wasn't always so greedy.
She had let herself be corrupted by a
much more powerful evil, and she forgot
her original mission to sustain the humans.
But keep your eyes open, evil still lurks.
Get ready to face the Great Marketing Demon!
Cross the purchase field of each human from left to right.
ARROW + SPACE: send for recycling; ARROW + LEFT SHIFT: push the devices
The recycling potential of electronic devices (%) varies from country to country.
Your ammunition is recalculated every year according to the national recycling %.
Your mission is to assist humans for 10 years without being blocked by a heap of devices.
ESCAPE: display the options, you can RESET the current year.
You can fire to get ride of red heaps; you can't push heaps of red or grey devices.
When you want to use RESET, it may already be too late. Take great care of your humans.
And watch out for Ed, the compulsive Australian buyer, his country recycle little electronics.
Be brave Gnomette! The humans need you!
Continue
Reset
Home screen
World Citizen Card
Local Activist Card
La Fée Electronique (The Electronic Fairy) is a game developed by Sébastien Abilla
during the Game Jam "Wasted Resources 2" hosted by Radiobush and Bucket-full-games in 2022.
The purchase and recycling rates are loosely based on:
Forti V. et al. (2020) The Global E-waste Monitor 2020: Quantities, flows and the circular economy potential.
But it's just a game, right? Notably:
* the report doesn't mention a quantitative limit that would prevent us from living,
* it's dubious to link quantity and harmfulness: 1g of mercury is more toxic than 1kg of aluminium.
The source code of La Fée Electronique is licensed under GNU GPLv3.
Sounds and visuals are modified from originals under various free licenses,
and they are redistributed under compatible licences.
Everything is available at https://github.com/sebabilla/lafeeelectronique.
Music: The Carnival of the Animals by Seattle Youth Symphony Orchestra.(CC BY-SA 3.0)
Sound effects: modified from LaSonothèque by Joseph Sardin.(CC0 1.0​)​
Characters: modified  from Opencliparts by GDJ.(CC0 1.0​)
Device icons from the Candy icons set by Eliver Lara.(GNU GPLv3​)
​Background image modified from a picture by Toffelginkgo​.(CC BY-SA 3.0​)
Gnomette completed her mission.
time:
steps:
tidying up:
recycling:
resets:
Cancel
Confirm
A mysterious power for people from a high GDP per capita country.
A mysterious power for people from an intermediate GDP per capita country.
Congratulations, you've unlocked the action card World Citizen!
Congratulations, you've unlocked the action card Local Activist Card!
  While you were sleeping, your
human got talked into it by a
charity and decided to send a
third of their old appliances
somewhere in Africa, so that
"over there" they can also stream
and play video games.
  Somewhat, your human wonders 
if such services are affordable
"over there", but then again, it's
a problem for those of "over there".
  What do you think, Gnomette?
  Your human amazes you!
  Together with a group of local 
activists, they alerted their
government about recyling issues.
Their representative at the UN
fought for a motion to be passed
and observators will come soon!
  First conclusions can be expected
in three years' time.
  What do you think, Gnomette?